# Susurrus

> "A soft murmuring or humming sound; a whisper; a murmur." ([Worknik](https://www.wordnik.com/words/susurrus))

The background noise of the Internet can have a surprising amount of impact on my brain.

Once, back when I was working at Twitter, I was trying to explain the import of the site to me at the time to a favorite great-aunt and I said something really trite like, "it's basically a form of low-grade telepathy for me."

It turns out that may have been more correct than I realized. While an always-on channel of news, humor, and insight was rather addictive, it also caused me to be more or less mainlining whatever filtered version of the zeitgeist my following list generated. Like many, I felt a strong resistence to algorithmic timelines and filtering intruding on the experience, but in hindsight it was not dissimilar from my behavior about alcohol in the same time period: I would literally snub free beer at parties and carry my own glass of single malt around feeling like a sophisticate, when I was really just a picky addict (and twice as annoying for it).

When I did a hard reset on my life this spring, one of the first casualities was social media. I've closed my Facebook account in the past -- and yes surprise, surprise: it was still there when I came back to check a year or more later, waiting for me to "reactivate" it -- but never gone so far as to fully retire from Twitter. For the last six months at least, though, going back has been like logging on to AIM long after you'd stopped actively using it (or wandering into a bar that _used_ to be a near-daily hangout) and seeing a mostly-empty roster with a couple of enthusiastic friends still chatting up a storm and far too many ex-es (professional and social) lurking, ready to pounce and put you on the spot to answer for where you've been all this time.

At first this meant mostly taking a diet from the Internet and switching to passive media consumption (TV, single-player video games, listening to the local public jazz radio station, "stacks and stacks" of ebooks and comics) with a leavening of creation (prose writing, photography, weird audio recording and radio experiments).

Now that coding has come back into play I've found myself wanting a community in which to talk about things, and not-entirely-satisfyingly doing so via a mix of [lobste.rs](https://lobste.rs), [ssb](https://www.scuttlebutt.nz/getting-started) via [patchwork](https://ahdinosaur.github.io/patchwork-downloader/), and a couple of private Slack communities I'm a part of based on either geography or shared festival attendance. Interestingly, none of these have a high degree of overlap with my expanded professional network, and in at least the SSB case I haven't bothered to link my identities on the "public web" and the scuttleverse.

Even if it falls short of my old feelings of continuous background mind-meld, for now I find the end result preferable. I won't say I'm any smarter or better-informed, but my near-constant latent feelings of anxiety and panic have largely gone away, I'm able to poke at awkward bits of my own past and feelings and take the time to really wrestle with them (even when not particularly tweet-worthy), and I generally feel ready to turn on the computer in the morning without dreading what's going to scroll past my eyeballs.

I'm also reminded very sharply of the series of sci-fi/horror/far-future space opera books I've been reading called the [Ian Cormac Novels](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98046.Gridlinked) wherein the James Bond-esque protagonist is in the very first book abruptly stripped by AI fiat of the "gridlink" which allows him instant dialogue with any AI, cyborg, AI/human-hybrid, or sufficiently-accessorized baseline human in real-time, anywhere in civilized space. The AI offers only a vague explanation about the dangers of extended gridlinking -- it's approaching 20 years continuously connected for the titular character -- and its impact on his ability to continue to "think like a human."

I currently feel a bit like that character: slightly hurt and bent out of shape by the imposition, but quietly grateful at the probability that I've narrowly avoided a rather untested reworking of my brain into something not-quite-human.

What does this have to do with this website, and it's rambling poking around ideas of distributed identity and communications? Two things, mostly:

* This site isn't structured like a "blog" in the traditional reverse-chronologically-ordered, publish-or-die model, which is very intentional.
* I feel an acute need to keep working to create at least some of the spaces so essential to human communication, organization, and shared work outside of the control of from growth-optimizing captialist enterprises.[^1] It's somewhere between curiosity and a desire to do penance for whatever small part I played in making addictive software products more effective and "engaging" through direct and indirect work.

[^1]: Modern corporations are a particularly aggressive economically-evolved organism whose selfish goals (not unlike those of a living, DNA-carrying species) are to support and benefit others only so long as they can be of service in their own expansion, reproduction, and eating and elimination. They also serve an incredibly valuable role (again, like many naturally-evolved creatures) in carrying large loads of useful resources from one place to another, protecting their wards, and developing useful strategies for making attractive crafts, durable goods, and safe shelters with ever-better materials and methods. In my best possible imagining of our [grim meathook future](https://www.jwz.org/blog/2005/09/the-grim-meathook-future/) I think we can look forward to us evolving, Canidae-like, to be better household pets and companions to our mostly-beneficent monorepo quantum-AI masters.