---
type: page
sidebar: false
---

# Chapter X

"Okay, here's the deal. You probably don't know this, but it turns out ambient network traffic all up and down the Pacific Rim loop is about 4x what it should be. There are several competing explanations for why, but basically it boils down to two camps: either someone has owned the network and is parasitically running the bulk of all network load (and a commensurate amount of CPU time for message processing along the way) exclusively for their benefit, or our protocols are actually just fucked and we have an ever-growing junky pile of data propagating and amplifying itself across the network to the exclusion of legit, critical packets."[^1]

"Couriers have actually been the biggest backstop against this and a soft proof of the second theory, since areas with better courier network coverage in and out tended to have much lower queue depths and re-send rates overall. Others argued this was a subtle bit of evidence in favor of the 'antagonistic parasite' model, since only the links that weren't subject to constant command-and-control feedback would carry their payload unmolested with any kind of consistent QoS parameters."

I thought for a second about my screaming dispatchers, and opined, "I guess that fits with my anecdotal experience, too. As this route has gotten more trafficked by other couriers there seems to be _less_ slack, not more, in my requested delivery SLAs. I assumed it was competition between us, but if it's actually the network trying to route around damaged communal links and prioritize the ones that work it would logically create the same result."

K patiently waited for me to finish explaining the thing he had known to be almost certain long before we met, then continued: "Right, so the pressure's been getting cranked up for a while now, and then along comes your orphan package: too big and/or secret to blast out across tons of redundant routing paths and risk being cached by who-know-how-many people along the way, but somehow also time-sensitive enough to cancel the order after a few hours' wait? And someone seems to be feeling sketchy about some part of the normal network crypto, or they could have just wrapped a bunch of copies in one-time keys, distributed those keys to their intended recipients over normal secure gossip, and then sat back and let the redundant courier deliveries trickle in as they may."

"All of this is very interesting and I wish you the best of luck debugging your weird network burps. In the meantime, though, why are you still talking to _me_ about it? I already got left literally holding the bag, and I don't see why I should care about this tempermental payload any more than I already have."

K sighed, looked down into his mug of tea, and then back at me as he seemed to decide how much to share. "Look, I don't think you're a bad person or anything, and I'm afraid whoever sent that package originally is going to be looking to prevent your copy from sitting around in easy reach of other people, encrypted or no. They may have secondary channels to get it where it's going, but them being cool just leaving a copy in the wind doesn't seem likely. Do me a favor, okay? If you hear anything more about that payload before you're off on your next round of deliveries, let me know? You've got my key, and I expect to be kicking around SF for at least a couple of days before I'm off on my next gig."

I blinked, honestly not sure whether to be more surprised at the concern or the obvious paranoid fantasies K was falling into. "Sure man, you got it. Keep an eye out for weirdness, ping you if my Spidey-sense gets triggered."[^2]

[^1]: Distributed, append-only logs are a nifty thing to study in CS class, but they're no basis for a system of government. Just ask the maladapted Milleneals still living in their walled compounds around Seattle, San Jose, and Vancouver: they cling to their cryptocurrency ledgers (no matter how slow to commit transactions, and prone to forks that result in brushfire-scale wars between factions supporting each branch of the global state) as the only source of ground truth and demand lengthy exchanges of currency to the local 'coin of choice before allowing entry to their borders in a bizarre, cargo-cult imitation of the airport security theater of the early 21st century.

[^2]: Say what you will about the Xers and Millenials still hanging on for dear life at the expense of anything like an equitable distribution of space or resources for the rest of us, their pop culture still hung around with some _really_ catchy and useful referants. Spiderman was something of a Paul Bunyan-like character these days, adopted as a mascot of sorts for the millions of people occupying the reclaimed but unreproducible upper levels of regrown cities, swinging between them on motor-assist ziplines and walking over delicate-looking bridges suspended from long meshes of synthetic spider-silk.